um all right
welcome to guillermo browsers for 25th
of oh gosh what is it august
2020 um
we got lots of folks today hi to all
uh the usuals and the new guys um
i'll start with uh the agenda and maybe
like post um it once again
on our chat
and
and i'll start with the first one
and maybe share my screen will be a bit
[Music]
faster
all right so um the first item is
a quick announcement that ipfs and
ipns uris are now now
safe listed to be used in register
protocol handler
ap web api in chromium and that means
um that means two things
one is that you are now able to register
redirect based protocol handler for
ipfs or ipns and redirect that
uri to url of your choice
and along with ipfs and ipns
a bunch of duo protocols are there
so that's that's pretty cool it's a part
of
our work that we've started doing with
igalia
just like dietrich mentioned um this is
work uh instigated and sponsored by ipfs
team
um at protocol labs and we are very
happy with
uh our collaboration with igalia that
produced this really cool patch which
landed in chromium
um it's a part of a longer work
for having a full protocol handler
for browser extension where you don't
just redirect you
are able to return a byte array
but it's the first very important step
to
have a support for those uris without
web plus prefix
so the context here is that not every
name can be a protocol
handler you can
there's like a safe list of names that
you can use
without a prefix and everything else
requires web plus prefix and that was a
problem because
web plus ipfs
was a thing separately from ipfs
uh colon slash so now uh
the need for the prefix is gone um
so that's cool and we are in the
chromium now um
the second announcement is also from me
so that's just a quick psa that's um
a new version 005
of ipfs spinning service api landed
it's not it's mostly clean up and
upgrade uh on naming we
um renamed some fields
to ensure they don't have the same name
in requests and response
it's now much easier to reason about
them
we've upgraded the docs there's more
visuals
and we got a new field
in the pin object net called name so you
can
it's a top level field where you can
assign a human readable name and then
you can
can filter your pins by partially
matching
uh that string um all the
providers are now under origins and
delegates
arrays and additional metadata for pin
status is now
called info full list of changes can be
found
in our github repo on
releases page i believe that's more
more or less all the changes
uh so this we don't expect this api to
change much
uh we probably will promote it to 1.0
people already started implementing it
so
i just encourage everyone to uh
familiarize yourself with the api if you
are interested in it
uh from the client or server perspective
we know
officially and in officially that people
are already starting
implementing clients and servers of this
api so expect
interesting updates in the following
weeks
i think that's two updates on my end
jessica do you want to briefly mention
the pr on the directory listing
landing go ipvs yeah this is this is
exciting because it's been a long time
in coming and it's also
the result of a bounty led effort
from an external contributor kevin
neaton who did a great job
um i do not have a local instance of it
loaded so i'm afraid i cannot actually
show you what this
um looks like but this does give
um in any of our standard ipfs directory
pages just
the regular directory pages there's now
there will now be a column for the cid
um there will also in the header of each
of those pages
have information about the directory's
size the one that you're viewing
and then also when you're in a
subdirectory
all of the path components listed in
that header will be
links so you can move up and down the
chain
with ease this is one of these and it
also includes a couple of miscellaneous
fixes
uh for um uh responsiveness
that were in an earlier uh an earlier
set of changes to directory index html
that we just didn't
get in because they were so small um so
and and so just
other optimizations as desired um this
is one of those things that
sort of turned into a massive rabbit
hole in terms of how we ended up
like actually getting it down the work
um
sounded really simple and then sort of
turned into this endless pile of things
so um lots of cutest to everybody who
who dug in to to do something that was
small but was actually really
substantial user-facing
improvements
um i also added there's a note there
cli tutor mode nearly ready to ship
this was another contributor community
contributor led
effort but um in the next
version i guess 2.11 hopefully uh we
will have the option
in the prefs to turn on and off cli
tutor mode which will give you a little
copy code icon
near things that are that map easily
from
um ipf's desktop and web ui into the
command line for folks who
started ah thank you lydol folks who
started um
and and these these screenshots are a
little bit outdated the icon chain and a
few other things in the meantime but you
you'll see
little little teases you click on those
they'll bring up a modal with the thing
that you copy paste into your terminal
to do the thing in the cli so
should be good for new users as an
onboarding improvement and super excited
that it ended up as something that was
led by a contributor
a community member
it's super super cool uh because um
in general our gui applications were
like are not aiming to be
the the end user product
with like original meaning of that it's
mostly
a demonstration like visual
visualization of ip
what ipfs can do and a vessel for
learning by exploring and i feel this is
a great
example of how we can do that because
from the graphical interface you can
learn how to do the same thing in the
command line
which is super cool um
[Music]
next one is is there anything
we need to discuss for uh the next
release of web ui let me quickly maybe
share
that milestone
um
[Music]
i've added one thing today um
to the pile of 2.11 but i think it's
it's better to like merge make a
decision
to merge or not but i'd say merged
sooner than later and it's this refactor
of components by
iraqi it does not like actually change
anything
it's just a refactor that clean up stuff
and make it
easier for people to contribute i think
uh but if we want to uh
uh to accept that change i do that with
entrepreneurs with the 2.11 mostly
because
it changes the way events are
created and we have this
opt-in mechanism for
metrics and we use currently service for
that
so uh if the
it's better if there's uh some
regression regarding the way we
uh gather metrics of how
users interactive application is better
to notice it sooner
than later and i'd like to notice that
before
we integrate pinning services is a
quick question is this going to
introduce any conflicts
with our giant pinning services branch
yeah so that's a that's that's a good
question i've put it
in this milestone mostly so that we
don't
miss it and we don't like make a
decision to merge it without considering
exactly that side effect so uh
i i think would be great to
[Music]
catch either a hack or only if they are
available
because they are probably the most
familiar with all the assumptions done
when countley was introduced um rafael
if you could block some time this week
and take a look at this
from your perspective from the
perspective of changes that you are
doing for
pinning services uh that would also be
useful
uh i'd say we should make a decision
uh sooner than later because it's a
pretty big
refi it's like a big refund pretty sure
i'm pretty sure ollie took care of all
of that initial
countley integration just per another
conversation
it's been going on side channel recently
i think that may have all been ollie's
original work or what that's worth
yeah i'm i'm not yeah i was like away
and
stuff i'm just like worrying that we'll
miss it so
uh that's why i've included it here uh
feel free
to like the scope it from this release
if it does not make sense
apart from that i think um
there are no new things
the um the last open question on tutor
mode
with the translations um i kicked that
back your way because i think there's
actually a really easy fix for that
i rtf10 um so so hopefully
hopefully if i understand this correctly
it should immediately take care of that
problem so that i think we could be we
could be done with
okay you can
you can explicitly you can explicitly
reference additional namespaces
rather than fallbacks yeah let's
i would have to take a look at this
asynchronous after the call because
my last experience was that it works
but then when you clean up the all the
files from those keys
the actual fallback turns out to not
work
so it may be a bug that was fixed since
the last time i
worked with i18 next i18 next is the
library we use for localization
in web ui yeah i did i made two commits
they seem to work
just fine uh it does sort of open up
future questions
because there are a lot of other
duplicate keys in there and then um
and just you know how far we want to
take that
and that's that's for separate that's
for a separate project
um but yeah i think that's great i think
this should take care of it
all right uh let's uh let's take that
oh gosh um
do we have any question marks or things
we want to discuss
for the other front um i know
rafael you've been working on cleaning
up the
all the issues related to people
connecting to remote node
uh yeah regarding that one um let me
just check real quick
i just had it open here um
the merge request is ready for review i
think you can
see it now lilo um
i just added just a few
asked for and um
i just need to fix something that you
comment on
recently apparently i didn't get the
notification on
but when i do that i'll i'll ask for
your review again and you can check it
out
just finishing cleaning up some
breadcrumbs stuff and
um test ci on
the the f connections animation as well
and then i'll i'll move to that
uh pull request again cool
um yeah the context here is that um
we don't want to invest too much time
because most of people want
will just lose a local node be that one
provided by ipfs desktop or locally
running oipfs
but there's a set of users who
want to connect to remote ip
which by remote we mean even mean the
ip in the ip or a domain in the local
network
and it's hard to tell when it's local
network or a remote one because
people connect over vpn there's like a
long tail of
the ways people use web ui to connect to
their nodes
and we figured out uh the way
to like accommodate most of users so
they it just
works so if it's possible
use the gateway from the nodes config
if not just hold back to the public
gateway uh
either user does not notice that or they
have ipfs companion and companion will
take care of redirecting that to the
proper
gateway of users choice um and i think
that's like the
the line in the sound where when we
balance
the the convenience of all the users
with
like the time we can spend to
account for every uh use case at this at
this stage
um so that's will probably close a bunch
of those
i'm not sure about supporting
api with when you enter
instead of multi-other when you enter
uri with a basic auf with user and a
password
um i know that
it was a problem for epiphany companion
in the past and it may
got changed with the change to the
latest js ipfs so that's probably
something we'll
have to add tests for i don't think we
have uh
like end-to-end tests for this um
so it's possible we have a regression
there but that's like my only note for
web ui 2.11
the rest looks fine i think
all right folks uh i think we we've
beat that 2.11 to the death
are we happy with it i think so i think
we're fine
we're fine um this is fine
point 11 has like three or four pull
requests that could potentially break
web ui big time at the same time
yeah it's just the trick is to match
them in the proper order
say a little prayer between each
like a small merger like animal
sacrifice or something between
all right um on there a different topic
uh we'll start we'll start
experimenting with uh grooming issues
every week
we want to do that on this call because
people
would fall asleep even more but
we will be blocking time each week to
triage issues on um
gui related um and web related
um browser related
uh repos and try to
ensure nothing is hanging without a sort
of
reply or at least a proper triage
[Music]
i don't think we have any highlights or
this week
i hope to finish ipf's companion
refactor and shipping that to beta but
that didn't happen hopefully this week
um the uh
do we just want to punt on you a couple
of weeks ago we've been working on
um active peers indicators uh in
companion and possibly in desktop and
i'd sort of started doing some of that
work do we just want to hold off on
continuing on that until you're done
with the refactor
i'd say i i want to even look at that
until i finish this fighter and
i i would uh make a better release with
refactor
and then probably go to that indicator
stuff and make a separate beta with that
yeah yeah because like pushing the
factory is pretty important
because
we some users use embedded js
in a browser and that embedded js ipfs
is in a super old version right now in
companion
and it will soon lose ability to connect
to other peers because sec
i o is deprecated so that
that the time window for making that
release is shrinking so that's like my
priority and then we'll
uh we'll do the other stuff um
yep i think that's it on the agenda
and any topics you want to bring up
once twice
that was the short one uh
see this is what happens when racket is
not around
all right i think i think we're good
with half an hour this week
let's uh let's plan for a
longer one in two weeks we'll probably
this time we'll probably have
both releases and some interesting
announcements
uh that close-up topics we've mentioned
this week
so i will start recording
i started recording so now i will stop
it so i will stop recording
now and we can get our
half an hour back
see you in two weeks thank you everyone
thank you